Documentation about Hull IR. (#357)
argotorg/solcore: doc/src/hull/README.md

# Hull

Hull is an intermediate language used by the Core Solidity compiler between the

> typed frontend and the Yul backend. Every Core Solidity contract is lowered to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hull is an intermediate language used by the Core Solidity compiler between SAIL and the Yul backend. Every SAIL program is lowered to
```

This is probably more accurate?

Hull after type-checking, monomorphization, and match compilation. Hull is then
translated to Yul for final code generation.

Hull retains algebraic data types — products and sums — from the source
language, but eliminates polymorphism, type classes, higher-order functions, and
all surface syntax sugar. The result is a first-order, monomorphic language

> whose structure maps directly onto Yul constructs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hull retains algebraic data types — products and sums — from SAIL, but eliminates polymorphism, type classes, higher-order functions, and
all surface syntax sugar. The result is a first-order, monomorphic language
whose structure maps directly onto Yul constructs.
```

and occupies no storage. `unit` appears as the payload type of nullary
constructors in sum types. For example, the `None` branch of `Option(word)` has
payload type `unit`.

### Product Types

A product type is written as:

```
(T1 * T2)
```

It holds two values simultaneously, one of type `T1` and one of type `T2`. The
`*` operator is right-associative, so `A * B * C` is parsed as `A * (B * C)`.

The projections `fst` and `snd` extract the left and right components of a
product value, respectively.

> **Note** N-ary products are not yet implemented. Products with more than two
> components are encoded as right-nested pairs: `(A, B, C)` is represented as
> `(A * (B * C))`.

### Sum Types

A sum type is written as:

```
(T1 + T2)
```

It holds a value of either type `T1`, tagged as the left branch, or type `T2`,
tagged as the right branch. The `+` operator is right-associative, so
`A + B + C` is parsed as `A + (B + C)`.

Sum values are constructed using injection expressions (`inl`, `inr`, `in(k)`)
and deconstructed using `match` statements.

An n-ary sum can also be written as `sum(T1, T2, ..., Tn)`, but the binary

> right-nested encoding is what the Yul code generator uses internally.

Reviewer: curious if there is any reason to support both syntactic forms? or can we just drop the `sum(...)` version if we don't use it?

Author: I remember that @mbenke used n-ary sums to compress tags during Yul lowering.

Reviewer 2: When I wrote this code, Daniel insisted on binary sums, so I have kept binary sums as a basic form and n-ary as an optimisation. We can probably change it, but it's orthogonal to the docs.
